docs/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, before:

= OpenShift 4 Authentication: A Commodore component to manage authentication (via OAuth) on OpenShift 4

{doctitle} is a Commodore component for Managing the OpenShift 4 authentication config.
The component allows to configure identity providers, templates to customize the look and feel of the login and the validity of the issued tokens.

This reflects the documentation provided by `oc explain --api-version config.openshift.io/v1 OAuth` with some small tweaks to simplify the input.

The parameters `openshift4_authentication.templates.(err,login,providerSelection)` directly take the template string.
The values will be written to a secret which then gets referenced in the OAuth CRD.

The value of parameter `openshift4_authentication.identityProviders` must be a dictionary.
The keys of the dictionary are only present to allow customizing the configuration of an identity provider later in the hierarchy.
The keys themselves aren't reflected anywhere in the generated configuration.

Each value in the dictionary must be a valid identityProvider configuration for OpenShift 4.
The component supports any type of provider config which is supported by Openshift 4.

When configuring an LDAP identity provider which is secured with a certificate issued by a CA which is part of the system CA bundle, the LDAP server CA doesn't need to be specified explicitly.
Otherwise, the CA can be provided as a literal string in field `ca` of the LDAP identity provider config.

NOTE: Currently, the component only supports configuring a custom CA certificate for LDAP identity providers.

Users should use the component's xref:how-tos/configure-secrets.adoc[secret configuration mechanism] to deploy secrets containing identity provider credentials.


== LDAP Group Sync

The https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.8/authentication/ldap-syncing.html[LDAP group sync] is configured to sync and prune groups from LDAP.
Configured groups are synced from the LDAP provider and will be pruned once deleted again in LDAP.

The sync cronjob is configured to be scheduled on the master nodes.
The reason for this scheduling configuration stems from a combination of two factors: first, LDAP servers may be protected with IP allow-lists, and second, an OCP4 cluster may be deployed with public IPs for all nodes

If both of those factors are combined, we need to add all the master node IPs to the allow-list, so that the control plane can talk to the LDAP server.
In this scenario, if the LDAP sync cronjob is scheduled on the master nodes, we don't need to add additional infra or worker node IPs to the allow-list.

== Cluster Admin Sudo

RBAC rules are set up in order to allow a sudo like method to gain cluster-admin privileges.

By default only `cluster-read` and `impersonate` permissions are granted to the groups defined in `openshift4_authentication.sudoGroups`.
Using https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#user-impersonation[user impersonation], permissions can be escalated to full `cluster-admin`:

[source,console]
----
oc --as cluster-admin get secret
----

The component also deploys a `RoleBinding` and a `ClusterRoleBinding` to ensure that users in the sudoers group can access the OpenShift cluster monitoring Alertmanager and its associated resources in the OpenShift console.

See https://kb.vshn.ch/oc4/how-tos/authentication/sudo.html[how-to] and https://kb.vshn.ch/oc4/explanations/sudo.html[explanation] for further details.

== Impersonating Users

`impersonate` permissions are granted to the groups defined in `openshift4_authentication.sudoGroups`.

This allows users in the sudoers group to impersonate other users in the cluster.

This is especially useful for debugging RBAC issues affecting other users.
You can check the permissions of a user or service account by running:

[source,console]
----
kubectl --as=system:serviceaccount:NS:SERVICEACCOUNT auth can-i get deployments/test
kubectl --as=USER auth can-i get deployments/test
----

When impersonating a user, their groups aren't included in the impersonation.
It's however possible to add groups to the impersonated user:

[source,console]
----
kubectl --as=USER --as-group=GROUP auth can-i get deployments/test <1>
----
<1> It's not necessary to pass an existing user if you only want to impersonate groups.

Group impersonation is only possible when impersonating a user.

Impersonation is logged in the Kubernetes API server audit logs.

[source,console]
----
❯ oc adm node-logs --role=master --path=kube-apiserver/audit.log | grep "impersonatedUser" | jq
{
  "kind": "Event",
  [...]
  "verb": "get",
  "user":
    {
      "username": "chuck.testa",
    },
  "impersonatedUser":
    {
      "username": "john.dwight",
      "groups": ["system:authenticated"]
    },
[...]
}
----

== Removing the kubeadmin user

The component deploys an Espejo syncconfig which deletes the `kubeadmin` secret in namespace `kube-system`.
This removes the `kubeadmin` user generated by the OpenShift installer, as described in the https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/authentication/remove-kubeadmin.html[OpenShift docs].
To avoid removing the user before other authentication methods are configured, the component ensures that the syncconfig is only deployed after the authentication configuration is deployed on the cluster.

[NOTE]
====
Removing this user doesn't affect the `kubeconfig` file generated by the OpenShift installer.
The `kubeconfig` file uses a client certificate to authorize against the cluster as `cluster-admin`.
This certificate remains valid even if the `kubeadmin` user is removed from the cluster.
In order words, emergency access with `kubeconfig` is still possible.
====

Commit message:

Implement `kubeadmin` secret removal as Espejote `ManagedResource`
We simply issue a delete for the `kubeadmin` secret on each reconcile.

We don't configure any triggers, since there's no way to recreate a
functional `kubeadmin` secret after it's been deleted, so we don't need
to perpetually ensure that there's no such secret.

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/index.adoc, after:

= OpenShift 4 Authentication: A Commodore component to manage authentication (via OAuth) on OpenShift 4

{doctitle} is a Commodore component for Managing the OpenShift 4 authentication config.
The component allows to configure identity providers, templates to customize the look and feel of the login and the validity of the issued tokens.

This reflects the documentation provided by `oc explain --api-version config.openshift.io/v1 OAuth` with some small tweaks to simplify the input.

The parameters `openshift4_authentication.templates.(err,login,providerSelection)` directly take the template string.
The values will be written to a secret which then gets referenced in the OAuth CRD.

The value of parameter `openshift4_authentication.identityProviders` must be a dictionary.
The keys of the dictionary are only present to allow customizing the configuration of an identity provider later in the hierarchy.
The keys themselves aren't reflected anywhere in the generated configuration.

Each value in the dictionary must be a valid identityProvider configuration for OpenShift 4.
The component supports any type of provider config which is supported by Openshift 4.

When configuring an LDAP identity provider which is secured with a certificate issued by a CA which is part of the system CA bundle, the LDAP server CA doesn't need to be specified explicitly.
Otherwise, the CA can be provided as a literal string in field `ca` of the LDAP identity provider config.

NOTE: Currently, the component only supports configuring a custom CA certificate for LDAP identity providers.

Users should use the component's xref:how-tos/configure-secrets.adoc[secret configuration mechanism] to deploy secrets containing identity provider credentials.


== LDAP Group Sync

The https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.8/authentication/ldap-syncing.html[LDAP group sync] is configured to sync and prune groups from LDAP.
Configured groups are synced from the LDAP provider and will be pruned once deleted again in LDAP.

The sync cronjob is configured to be scheduled on the master nodes.
The reason for this scheduling configuration stems from a combination of two factors: first, LDAP servers may be protected with IP allow-lists, and second, an OCP4 cluster may be deployed with public IPs for all nodes

If both of those factors are combined, we need to add all the master node IPs to the allow-list, so that the control plane can talk to the LDAP server.
In this scenario, if the LDAP sync cronjob is scheduled on the master nodes, we don't need to add additional infra or worker node IPs to the allow-list.

== Cluster Admin Sudo

RBAC rules are set up in order to allow a sudo like method to gain cluster-admin privileges.

By default only `cluster-read` and `impersonate` permissions are granted to the groups defined in `openshift4_authentication.sudoGroups`.
Using https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/authentication/#user-impersonation[user impersonation], permissions can be escalated to full `cluster-admin`:

[source,console]
----
oc --as cluster-admin get secret
----

The component also deploys a `RoleBinding` and a `ClusterRoleBinding` to ensure that users in the sudoers group can access the OpenShift cluster monitoring Alertmanager and its associated resources in the OpenShift console.

See https://kb.vshn.ch/oc4/how-tos/authentication/sudo.html[how-to] and https://kb.vshn.ch/oc4/explanations/sudo.html[explanation] for further details.

== Impersonating Users

`impersonate` permissions are granted to the groups defined in `openshift4_authentication.sudoGroups`.

This allows users in the sudoers group to impersonate other users in the cluster.

This is especially useful for debugging RBAC issues affecting other users.
You can check the permissions of a user or service account by running:

[source,console]
----
kubectl --as=system:serviceaccount:NS:SERVICEACCOUNT auth can-i get deployments/test
kubectl --as=USER auth can-i get deployments/test
----

When impersonating a user, their groups aren't included in the impersonation.
It's however possible to add groups to the impersonated user:

[source,console]
----
kubectl --as=USER --as-group=GROUP auth can-i get deployments/test <1>
----
<1> It's not necessary to pass an existing user if you only want to impersonate groups.

Group impersonation is only possible when impersonating a user.

Impersonation is logged in the Kubernetes API server audit logs.

[source,console]
----
❯ oc adm node-logs --role=master --path=kube-apiserver/audit.log | grep "impersonatedUser" | jq
{
  "kind": "Event",
  [...]
  "verb": "get",
  "user":
    {
      "username": "chuck.testa",
    },
  "impersonatedUser":
    {
      "username": "john.dwight",
      "groups": ["system:authenticated"]
    },
[...]
}
----

== Removing the kubeadmin user

The component deploys an Espejote `ManagedResource` which deletes the `kubeadmin` secret in namespace `kube-system`.
This removes the `kubeadmin` user generated by the OpenShift installer, as described in the https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/authentication/remove-kubeadmin.html[OpenShift docs].
To avoid removing the user before other authentication methods are configured, the component ensures that the `ManagedResource` is only deployed after the authentication configuration is deployed on the cluster.

[NOTE]
====
Removing this user doesn't affect the `kubeconfig` file generated by the OpenShift installer.
The `kubeconfig` file uses a client certificate to authorize against the cluster as `cluster-admin`.
This certificate remains valid even if the `kubeadmin` user is removed from the cluster.
In order words, emergency access with `kubeconfig` is still possible.
====
