docs/modules/ROOT/pages/references/parameters.adoc, before:

= Parameters

The parent key for all of the following parameters is `openshift4_authentication`.

== `namespace`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `openshift-config`

The namespace in which to create manifests.

IMPORTANT: The component may not work correctly if this parameter is changed.

== `sudoGroupName`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `null`

The OpenShift group name for which the component configures RBAC to allow members to impersonate users, groups, and service accounts, including the cluster administrator.
See xref:index.adoc#_cluster_admin_sudo[Cluster Admin Sudo] and xref:index.adoc#_impersonating_users[Impersonating Users] for more details.

[WARNING]
====
This parameter is deprecated and will be removed in a future release.
Use `sudoGroups` instead.
====


== `sudoGroups`

[horizontal]
type:: list
default:: `[]`

The OpenShift group names for which the component configures RBAC to allow members to impersonate users, groups, and service accounts, including the cluster administrator.
See xref:index.adoc#_cluster_admin_sudo[Cluster Admin Sudo] and xref:index.adoc#_impersonating_users[Impersonating Users] for more details.

Groups can be removed from the hierarchy by prefixing them with a `~` character.


=== Example

[source,yaml]
----
sudoGroups:
- ~sudoers
- admins
----


== `adminUserName`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `cluster-admin`

The username used for cluster administrator impersonation.

== `identityProviders`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: `{}`

This key allows users to configure arbitrary OpenShift identity providers.
Please see the https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/authentication/understanding-identity-provider.html#supported-identity-providers[upstream documentation] for supported configurations.

The component processes the contents of the dict into a list of `identityProvider` entries for the OpenShift 4 `OAuth` object.
The dict keys are only present to allow users to modify existing entries in the hierarchy.
They don't appear in the generated manifests.

NOTE: The component doesn't validate the provided configurations.

NOTE: Currently, the component only supports configuring a custom CA certificate for LDAP identity providers.

[TIP]
====
The component accepts custom CA certificate bundles for LDAP providers in key `ca` of an LDAP identity provider config.
If a CA certificate bundle is provided like that, the component will generate a ConfigMap containing the CA certificate bundle, and will update the identity provider config to reference that ConfigMap.
====


Users should use the component's xref:how-tos/configure-secrets.adoc[secret configuration mechanism] to deploy secrets containing identity provider credentials.

== `templates`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
err: ''
login: ''
providerSelection: ''
----

This parameter allows users to configure templates for the OpenShift authentication error, login, and provider selection pages.
The component expects keys `err`, `login` and `providerSelection` in this parameter.
The contents of those keys are used verbatim as the corresponding templates.

If any templates are configured, the component will create a single Secret called `oauth-templates`.
The component writes each configured template to the secret in the keys documented in the upstream documentation on https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/web_console/customizing-the-web-console.html#customizing-the-login-page_customizing-web-console[customizing the login page].

NOTE: We use key `err` instead of `error` because `error` is a keyword in Jsonnet.


== `token`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
timeoutSeconds: ~
maxAgeSeconds: ~
----

This parameter allows users to customize the OAuth access token expiration.

Key `timeoutSeconds` can be set to configure the desired value for the token's inactivity timeout.
See the upstream documentation on https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.9/authentication/configuring-internal-oauth.html#oauth-token-inactivity-timeout_configuring-internal-oauth[configuring token inactivity timeout for the internal OAuth server] for more details.

Key `maxAgeSeconds` can be set to configure the desired value for the token's maximum life time.
See the upstream documentation on https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/authentication/configuring-internal-oauth.html#oauth-configuring-internal-oauth_configuring-internal-oauth[configuring the internal OAuth server's token duration] for more details.


== `ldapSync`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
schedule: '%d * * * *'
----

This parameter allows configuring the LDAP sync CronJob schedule.
The schedule defined here will be applied for LDAP identity providers which don't configure their own custom schedule.

The component will apply the logic documented in the Project Syn Jsonnet best practices on https://syn.tools/syn/explanations/jsonnet.html#_randomize_cron_schedules[randomizing cron schedules] to avoid generating load spikes on an LDAP server.

NOTE: The component may break if you specify a schedule which doesn't contain exactly one `%d` format specifier.

== `secrets`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: `{}`

This parameter allows users to configure arbitrary secrets.
The contents of the parameter are transformed into `Secret` resources.

See the how-to on xref:how-tos/configure-secrets.adoc[configuring secrets] for more details.

== `groupMemberships`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: `{}`

This parameter allows users to configure arbitrary OpenShift groups and group memberships.

See the how-to on xref:how-tos/group-memberships.adoc[managing group memberships] for more details.

Commit message:

Move parameter to global ldapSync

docs/modules/ROOT/pages/references/parameters.adoc, after:

= Parameters

The parent key for all of the following parameters is `openshift4_authentication`.

== `namespace`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `openshift-config`

The namespace in which to create manifests.

IMPORTANT: The component may not work correctly if this parameter is changed.

== `sudoGroupName`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `null`

The OpenShift group name for which the component configures RBAC to allow members to impersonate users, groups, and service accounts, including the cluster administrator.
See xref:index.adoc#_cluster_admin_sudo[Cluster Admin Sudo] and xref:index.adoc#_impersonating_users[Impersonating Users] for more details.

[WARNING]
====
This parameter is deprecated and will be removed in a future release.
Use `sudoGroups` instead.
====


== `sudoGroups`

[horizontal]
type:: list
default:: `[]`

The OpenShift group names for which the component configures RBAC to allow members to impersonate users, groups, and service accounts, including the cluster administrator.
See xref:index.adoc#_cluster_admin_sudo[Cluster Admin Sudo] and xref:index.adoc#_impersonating_users[Impersonating Users] for more details.

Groups can be removed from the hierarchy by prefixing them with a `~` character.


=== Example

[source,yaml]
----
sudoGroups:
- ~sudoers
- admins
----


== `adminUserName`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default:: `cluster-admin`

The username used for cluster administrator impersonation.

== `identityProviders`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: `{}`

This key allows users to configure arbitrary OpenShift identity providers.
Please see the https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/authentication/understanding-identity-provider.html#supported-identity-providers[upstream documentation] for supported configurations.

The component processes the contents of the dict into a list of `identityProvider` entries for the OpenShift 4 `OAuth` object.
The dict keys are only present to allow users to modify existing entries in the hierarchy.
They don't appear in the generated manifests.

NOTE: The component doesn't validate the provided configurations.

NOTE: Currently, the component only supports configuring a custom CA certificate for LDAP identity providers.

[TIP]
====
The component accepts custom CA certificate bundles for LDAP providers in key `ca` of an LDAP identity provider config.
If a CA certificate bundle is provided like that, the component will generate a ConfigMap containing the CA certificate bundle, and will update the identity provider config to reference that ConfigMap.
====


Users should use the component's xref:how-tos/configure-secrets.adoc[secret configuration mechanism] to deploy secrets containing identity provider credentials.

== `templates`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
err: ''
login: ''
providerSelection: ''
----

This parameter allows users to configure templates for the OpenShift authentication error, login, and provider selection pages.
The component expects keys `err`, `login` and `providerSelection` in this parameter.
The contents of those keys are used verbatim as the corresponding templates.

If any templates are configured, the component will create a single Secret called `oauth-templates`.
The component writes each configured template to the secret in the keys documented in the upstream documentation on https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/web_console/customizing-the-web-console.html#customizing-the-login-page_customizing-web-console[customizing the login page].

NOTE: We use key `err` instead of `error` because `error` is a keyword in Jsonnet.


== `token`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
timeoutSeconds: ~
maxAgeSeconds: ~
----

This parameter allows users to customize the OAuth access token expiration.

Key `timeoutSeconds` can be set to configure the desired value for the token's inactivity timeout.
See the upstream documentation on https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.9/authentication/configuring-internal-oauth.html#oauth-token-inactivity-timeout_configuring-internal-oauth[configuring token inactivity timeout for the internal OAuth server] for more details.

Key `maxAgeSeconds` can be set to configure the desired value for the token's maximum life time.
See the upstream documentation on https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/latest/authentication/configuring-internal-oauth.html#oauth-configuring-internal-oauth_configuring-internal-oauth[configuring the internal OAuth server's token duration] for more details.


== `ldapSync`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
schedule: '%d * * * *'
command: {}
----

=== `ldapSync.schedule`

[horizontal]
type:: string
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
schedule: '%d * * * *'
----

This parameter allows configuring the LDAP sync CronJob schedule.
The schedule defined here will be applied for LDAP identity providers which don't configure their own custom schedule.

The component will apply the logic documented in the Project Syn Jsonnet best practices on https://syn.tools/syn/explanations/jsonnet.html#_randomize_cron_schedules[randomizing cron schedules] to avoid generating load spikes on an LDAP server.

NOTE: The component may break if you specify a schedule which doesn't contain exactly one `%d` format specifier.

=== `ldapSync.command`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default::
+
[source,yaml]
----
command: {}
----

This parameter allows overwriting the commands used for `sync` and `prune`.

NOTE: The command defined here will apply to all LDAP idedtity providers.

== `secrets`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: `{}`

This parameter allows users to configure arbitrary secrets.
The contents of the parameter are transformed into `Secret` resources.

See the how-to on xref:how-tos/configure-secrets.adoc[configuring secrets] for more details.

== `groupMemberships`

[horizontal]
type:: dict
default:: `{}`

This parameter allows users to configure arbitrary OpenShift groups and group memberships.

See the how-to on xref:how-tos/group-memberships.adoc[managing group memberships] for more details.
